JUDY WOODRUFF: As we just heard,
the president defended his older
son's meeting with a Russian
lawyer last year, saying
that it was standard
opposition research.
But some have
questioned that premise.
To discuss all this,
we are joined now by
two campaign veterans.
Tim Miller was the former
communications director for Jeb
Bush's presidential campaign.
He is also co-founder of
the Republican opposition
research group America Rising.
And Christina Reynolds, she
was the deputy communications
director for Hillary Clinton's
2016 presidential campaign,
and she's now the senior vice
president for Global Strategy
Group, a Democratic
research firm.
And we welcome both of
you to the "NewsHour."
Christina, I'm going
to start with you.
Tell our audience, what
is opposition research?
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS, Former
Hillary Clinton Campaign Deputy
Communications Director: Well,
when I started, we used to call
it quotes, votes and anecdotes.
It is gathering public
information to tell a
story about your opponent.
So, we look at public sources.
We look at everything from
votes to tax records to personal
stories that you can find out
about someone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tim Miller,
what would you add to that?
TIM MILLER, Former Jeb Bush
Campaign Communications
Director: I think that's right.
I call it full
information awareness.
You want to know everything
you can about your opponent,
everything they have ever said,
any way they have ever made
money, any way they have ever
spent money, and so that you
can use it to your advantage
in the campaign and so voters
know their entire record.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Christina
Reynolds, is it anything goes?
Anything about their medical
records, their personal life?
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: No.
I mean, first and foremost,
you have to -- we used to have
a rule that said, if you can
cite it, you can write it.
You need a publicly
available source for
something to be credible
in the news, for something
to be credible in ads.
And, second of all, if you
go into things like medical
records and things like that,
then you start getting into
worrying about blowback
for your own candidate.
So, it's not anything goes.
You have to be careful.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: What
do you mean blowback?
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: I mean,
at some point, there's a risk
that the actual gathering of
the information may be
considered worse then
the public -- than
the information that's
found, if it's considered
dirty tricks, so to speak.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tim Miller,
are there lines drawn around
what's considered acceptable
opposition research or not?
TIM MILLER: Of course there are.
We started an opposition
research firm America Rising
that has been very successful.
And -- but what try to do is
ensure that we stay inside
these lines, both legal lines
and ethical -- and
ethical boundaries.
And I think both of those are
in play here with regards to
the president's son's meeting.
It's like Christina said.
You saw this with the Ted Cruz
campaign in Iowa, that they
had blowback when they were
spreading information that Ben
Carson was going to drop out
of the race, when that wasn't
true.
You have to be careful that
your opposition research is
correct, first and foremost, but
also within legal
and ethical bounds.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that's what I
want to pursue with both of you.
What is inside and what
is outside the bounds
of what you can do?
And, of course, we're asking
you all this because of what
happened with regard to Donald
Trump Jr., the meeting
he took with a Russian
- - representative of
the Russian government.
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: Sure.
Well, I can tell you, in
my experience in research,
what he did is not normal.
I think that what's inside
the bounds is things that
are publicly available.
You do a lot of Freedom
of Information Act
records requests.
You certainly talk to people,
but you do so with people that
you know and trust are giving
you solid information
and information that you
can then go and prove.
And you certainly don't
do something with a
hostile government,
you know, being on your
side.
You know, the best example of
this is when Al Gore's campaign
got a debate book FedExed
to them, a George
Bush debate book.
The first thing they did was
call the FBI, because you
wonder, are you being set up?
You wonder, is this something
that's valid, that's real?
That's something that you
don't take every meeting.
People call with tips.
You make sure that you
trust the veracity of the
information and the source.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tim Miller, had
you ever, before this instance,
heard of a time when someone
was offered information by a
foreign hostile government?
TIM MILLER: Well, I will tell
you, almost to the question,
I -- like President Trump,
have been called by anonymous
people, friends of friends with
information about him, frankly,
and about Hillary Clinton when
I was working for Jeb Bush.
And you have to make a
decision about whether
this is a credible person.
You have to talk to lawyers
to make sure, if you have
the conversation, it's within
legal bounds.
Now, those conversations,
while maybe some would consider
to be a little bit sketchy,
pale in comparison to the idea
of getting a call from somebody
who explicitly says they're
here from the
Russian government.
This is not just a
foreign government, Judy.
It wasn't Switzerland who
had called Donald Trump Jr.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
TIM MILLER: It was a
country that is out there
to undermine our interests
on the world stage.
It's so far beyond the pale,
that it's kind of almost silly
to compare it to some of these
other gray area opposition
research efforts, because
there is nothing gray about it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Christina, were
you ever aware of being offered
or hear of anybody in a campaign
being offered something
from a foreign hostile...
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: From
a foreign government?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS:
That's an easy answer: No.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so, when
a question arises about what
you're -- whether you're being
offered or what someone's trying
to tell you, if there is any
question about it, what do
you do?
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: I think,
as Tim mentioned, sometimes,
you talk to lawyers.
You think about, will I be
able to give this to a reporter
and know that it's true?
Would I have my candidate
say it out loud and
feel confident in that?
You think through those
things, and I think you
set a really high bar.
If we learned anything from the
Donald Trump's election, from
the past campaign and Trump's
election, it's that no one
story can kill a campaign, but
you don't want to be the one
that is -- you know, that is
seen as playing dirty tricks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are people
-- I know every campaign is
different, Tim Miller, in the
way it's organized, the
hierarchy and so forth.
But are there rules that are
shared, that are known by people
in modern American politics
about what's OK and what isn't?
You just count on
the lawyers you hire?
And I know every campaign
has lawyers to tell you
that, or how does that work?
TIM MILLER: Yes, look, I
think that there are norms
within opposition research.
We also run a candidate
tracking organization.
It's the guys that -- and gals
that follow around candidates
with a video camera to get
whatever they say on the record.
And there are rules.
We work with a Democratic
opposition research firm,
you know, and we would
have an off-the-record
conversation to kind of set
boundaries, you know, that we
weren't going to go videotape
their family dinner, right?
You're not going to go
dumpster-diving in there in the
trash can outside their house.
Like I said, there are going to
be areas where there are some
-- where there are gray areas.
Opposition research is not
all just fun and games.
It's serious business,
especially running
for high office.
But there are legal lines and
then there are also just decency
boundaries, you know, like
the example I mentioned
about the family.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right, but even
if -- Christina, even if the
campaign says, we're not going
to do this, there are other
tabloids and others out there
who may be engaging in this kind
of research.
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: Sure.
And I think one thing -- Tim
will probably back me up on
this -- one thing that is true
of all researchers
is, we all see black
helicopters a little bit.
We are all just a
little bit paranoid.
And you worry about a setup.
You worry that just the
giving of that information
may be more interesting
news than the information
itself.
And so you use your best
judgment, as Tim mentioned.
You know, you use your lawyers
and you use your best judgment,
and you make sure that
you don't do anything that's
going to damage the campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
Experience counts.
TIM MILLER: You go back
to that '08 campaign
with Hillary Clinton and
Obama, Hillary Clinton's
oppo research on Obama, I think
-- Christina would know better
-- backfired more than it
helped, because people didn't
want there to be, within a
family, intraparty squabbles
that were that personal.
And so you have to be
careful about that.
There are electoral implications
to consider, in addition to
the legal and ethical ones.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it is --
it's a subject that doesn't
get a lot of attention, but,
right now, everybody
is asking questions.
Tim Miller, Christina
Reynolds, we thank you both.
CHRISTINA REYNOLDS: Thank you.
TIM MILLER: Thanks, Judy.